# Project: Tata Motors
Data Visualisation: Empowering Business with Effective Insights

### Project Overview
An online retail store hired me as a consultant to review their data and provide insights that would be valuable to the CEO and CMO of the business as Management wants to analyse what the major contributing factors are to the revenue performance so they can strategically plan for next year. Management also intends to expand the business and is interested in seeking guidance into areas that are performing well so they can keep a clear focus on what’s working. I need to draft the relevant analytics, visuals and insights that would help evaluate the current business performance and suggest metrics that would enable them to make the decisions that will generate revenue and business growth in the future.

### Project Tasks
* **Task 1:** I was tasked with drafting questions that I think will be important and relevant to the CEO and CMO. I was given company sales data to be used as the basis of my exploration and analysis.
* **Task 2:** In this task I had to determine which types of visuals would be best to answer the following 5 questions which give understanding to the buesiness requirement from the perspective of the CEO and CMO. Each question represents a scenario which I needed a visual to go along with said scenario.
* * Q1: The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the entire year. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year. Which visual would most likely help the CEO analyse the data? (Answer: Line Chart)
  * Q2: The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, as a subcomponent, they would also like to see which products are contributing to the total revenue being generated by each country. Which visual would enable the CMO to view the revenue for each country and the breakdown by products on a single chart? (Answer: Stacked Bar Chart)
  * Q3: The CEO of the online retail store wants to see how much average revenue is generated by each country. They are interested in viewing the following metrics on the visual: Minimum value First quartile value Median value Third quartile value Maximum value Which chart would you create to show the above metrics for the average revenue generated by each country? (Answer: Boxplot)
  * Q4: The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. They are interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue-generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue-generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue-generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products. Which visual would help the CMO understand the data on revenue generated by the top 10 customers? (Answer: Column Chart)
  * Q5: The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. They want to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, they will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. Which chart would be most useful to provide the CEO information on the demand in each region? (Answer: Map Chart)
* **Task 3:** .
* **Task 4:** . 

### Table of Contents

* **Task 1:**  Framing the Business Scenario.

* **Task 2:** Choosing the Right Visuals.

* **Task 3:** Creating Effective Visuals.

* **Task 4:** Communicating Insights and Analysis.
